adding resolve index api docs #2114 (#9592)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _api-reference/index-apis/resolve-index.md

---

# Resolve index

The Resolve Index API helps you understand how OpenSearch resolves aliases, data streams, and concrete indexes that match a specified name or wildcard expression.

## Endpoints

```json
GET /_resolve/index/<name>
```

## Path parameters

The following table lists the available path parameters. All path parameters are required.

| Parameter | Data type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `name` | String | The name, alias, data stream, or wildcard expression to resolve. |

## Query parameters

The following table lists the available query parameters. All query parameters are optional.

| Parameter | Data type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `expand_wildcards` | String | Controls how wildcard expressions expand to matching indexes. Multiple values can be combined using commas. Valid values are:<br>• `all` – Expand to open and closed indexes, including hidden ones.<br>• `open` – Expand only to open indexes.<br>• `closed` – Expand only to closed indexes.<br>• `hidden` – Include hidden indexes (must be used with `open`, `closed`, or both).<br>• `none` – Wildcard expressions are not accepted.<br>**Default**: `open`. |

## Example requests

> The following sections provide Resolve API example requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following sections provide example Resolve API requests.
```

---
layout: default
title: Resolve index
parent: Index APIs

> nav_order: 19

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
nav_order: 62
```

---

# Resolve index

> The resolve index API helps you understand how OpenSearch resolves aliases, data streams, and concrete indices that match a specified name or wildcard expression.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Resolve Index API helps you understand how OpenSearch resolves aliases, data streams, and concrete indexes that match a specified name or wildcard expression.
```

## Endpoints

```json
GET /_resolve/index/<name>
```

## Path parameters

The following table lists the available path parameters. All path parameters are required.

| Parameter | Data type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `name` | String | The name, alias, data stream, or wildcard expression to resolve. |

## Query parameters

The following table lists the available query parameters. All query parameters are optional.

| Parameter | Data type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |

> | `expand_wildcards` | String | Controls how wildcard expressions expand to matching indices. Multiple values can be combined with commas. Valid values are:<br>• `all` – Expand to open and closed indices, including hidden ones.<br>• `open` – Expand only to open indices.<br>• `closed` – Expand only to closed indices.<br>• `hidden` – Include hidden indices (must be used with `open`, `closed`, or both).<br>• `none` – Wildcard expressions are not accepted.<br>**Default:** `open`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `expand_wildcards` | String | Controls how wildcard expressions expand to matching indexes. Multiple values can be combined using commas. Valid values are:<br>• `all` – Expand to open and closed indexes, including hidden ones.<br>• `open` – Expand only to open indexes.<br>• `closed` – Expand only to closed indexes.<br>• `hidden` – Include hidden indexes (must be used with `open`, `closed`, or both).<br>• `none` – Wildcard expressions are not accepted.<br>**Default**: `open`. |
```

> ## Request body fields

Reviewer 2: If there is no request body, you can remove this section.

This API does not support a request body.

> ## Example request(s)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Example requests

The following sections provide Resolve API example requests.

```

### Resolve a concrete index

> The following example shows an API request with concrete index:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows an API request with a concrete index:
```

> The following example shows an API request with a concrete index:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

```json
GET _resolve/index/my-index-001
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> ### Resolve indices using a wildcard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Resolve indexes using a wildcard
```

> The following example shows an API request with a wildcard:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

```json
GET _resolve/index/my-index-*
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### Resolve a data stream or alias

> If an alias or data stream named `logs-app` exists, use the following command to resolve it:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If an alias or data stream named `logs-app` exists, use the following request to resolve it:
```

```json
GET _resolve/index/logs-app
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> ### Resolve hidden indices using a wildcard in remote cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Resolve hidden indexes using a wildcard in a remote cluster
```

> The following example shows an API request using wildcard, remote cluster and `expand_wildcards` configured to `hidden`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows an API request using a wildcard, a remote cluster, and `expand_wildcards` configured to `hidden`:
```

```json
GET _resolve/index/my-index-*,remote-cluster:my-index-*?expand_wildcards=hidden
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Example response

```json
{
  "indices": [
    {
      "name": "my-index-001",
      "attributes": [
        "open"
      ]
    }
  ],
  "aliases": [],
  "data_streams": []
}
```

## Response body fields

| Field | Data type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |

> | `indices` | Array | A list of resolved concrete indices. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `indices` | Array | A list of resolved concrete indexes. |
```

| `aliases` | Array | A list of resolved index aliases. |
| `data_streams` | Array | A list of matched data streams. |

## Required permissions

> If you use the Security plugin, the user running these queries needs to have at least `read` permission on the resolved index. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using the Security plugin, the user running these queries needs to have at least `read` permissions for the resolved index. 
```
